Docs for subscription callback plugin (#7666)
apollographql/apollo-server: docs/source/api/plugin/subscription-callback.mdx

---
title: "API Reference: Subscription callback plugin"
api_reference: true

> ---

Reviewer: ```suggestion
minVersion: 4.9.0
---
```

Reviewer 2: Yesss, thanks for suggesting use of the new component @dariuszkuc ! ❤️

---

> > This document covers the usage of the Subscription callback plugin for use in Apollo Federation with Apollo Router. For more information about the protocol itself, see the [subscription callback protocol](/router/executing-operations/subscription-callback-protocol).

Reviewer 2: This is getting wrapped so it looks a little funky:
<img width="761" alt="image" src="https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-server/assets/23219998/7a3e8638-b05b-49b2-9970-51edd774b79e">

Might be easier to just wrap the whole thing in a `<blockquote>`

---
title: "API Reference: Subscription callback plugin"
api_reference: true
minVersion: 4.9.0
---

> > This protocol is currently in [preview](/resources/product-launch-stages#preview). Breaking changes might be introduced during the preview period.

Reviewer 2: Without prior reference, "this protocol" is a little confusing.

I would put this sentence after the next one ("This document...") To maintain the importance of it, I would bold it.

```suggestion
```

Author: Agreed, much better on the next line. I added a **⚠️ Note:** in front of it. [33bb766](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-server/pull/7666/commits/33bb7669841ccc7861e22b2c13110d31b90873a0)

> >

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Author: [346721c](https://github.com/apollographql/apollo-server/pull/7666/commits/346721cfb8d4c825563296c8e59d7fddf6a55404)

> > This document covers the usage of the Subscription callback plugin for use in Federation with Apollo Router. For more information about the protocol itself, see the [subscription callback protocol](/router/executing-operations/subscription-callback-protocol).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> This document covers the usage of the Subscription callback plugin for use in Apollo Federation with Apollo Router. For more information about the protocol itself, see the [subscription callback protocol](/router/executing-operations/subscription-callback-protocol).

**This protocol is currently in [preview](/resources/product-launch-stages#preview). Breaking changes might be introduced during the preview period.**
```

According to our "official verbiage", the first instance of "federation" should be "Apollo Federation", with subsequent mentions with lowercase "federation".

## Using the plugin

This article documents the options for the `ApolloServerPluginSubscriptionCallback` plugin, which you can import from `@apollo/server/plugin/subscriptionCallback`.

> This plugin enables your GraphQL Server to respond to subscription operations using the subscription callback protocol. This protocol is used by Apollo Router to execute subscription operations and receive updates at a URL specified by the router.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This plugin enables your GraphQL server to respond to [subscription operations](/apollo-server/data/subscriptions/) using the [subscription callback protocol](https://www.apollographql.com/docs/router/executing-operations/subscription-callback-protocol/#initialization).  Apollo Router uses this protocol to execute subscription operations and receive updates at a URL specified by the router.
```

This feature can only be enabled by providing an `ApolloServerPluginSubscriptionCallback` instance to your `ApolloServer` constructor:

<MultiCodeBlock>

```ts
import { ApolloServer } from '@apollo/server';
import { ApolloServerPluginSubscriptionCallback } from '@apollo/server/plugin/subscriptionCallback';

const server = new ApolloServer({
  typeDefs,
  resolvers,
  plugins: [
    ApolloServerPluginSubscriptionCallback(),
  ],
});
```

</MultiCodeBlock>

## Caveats

The subscription plugin implementation inherently bypasses Apollo Server's request lifecycle. This means that certain plugin hooks (notably `executionDidStart` and `willResolveField`) will not be called when handling callback subscription requests or when sending subscription events. There is currently no metrics or tracing support for callback subscriptions.

#### Options

<table class="field-table">
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Name /<br/>Type</th>
      <th>Description</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>

<tbody>

<tr>
<td>

###### `heartbeatIntervalMs`

`number`
</td>
<td>

> Optionally configure the heartbeat interval (provided in milliseconds). The default is 5 seconds, which is the interval that Apollo Router expects. Lengthening this interval will cause Apollo Router to invalidate existing subscriptions frequently and is not recommended. You might want to shorten this interval if you have latency issues between your GraphQL Server and Apollo Router.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Optionally configure the heartbeat interval in milliseconds. The default is 5 seconds, which is the interval that Apollo Router expects. Lengthening this interval may cause Apollo Router to invalidate existing subscriptions frequently and is not recommended. You may want to shorten this interval if you have latency issues between your GraphQL Server and Apollo Router.
```

</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>

###### `logger`

`Logger`
</td>
<td>

> Optionally provide a `Logger` instance to capture logs from the plugin.

Reviewer 2: Is there a good link we can add to `Logger` in case folks are unfamiliar?

Author: Yep, good call! Added
